add order_weight (#6957)
opsmill/infrahub: docs/docs/guides/customize-field-ordering.mdx

---
title: How to Customize Field Ordering
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# How to Customize Field Ordering

This guide shows you how to control the order in which attributes and relationships appear in the Infrahub frontend using the `order_weight` property.

## Prerequisites

- An existing Infrahub schema loaded into your instance

> - Access to the schema explorer at `http://localhost:8000/schema` (or your Infrahub URL)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Access to the schema explorer under Object Management > Schemas
```

- Understanding of [schema basics](../topics/schema)

## Step 1: Check Current Field Ordering

Before making changes, examine how your fields are currently ordered.

### View in the Schema Explorer

> 1. Navigate to your Infrahub instance's schema explorer: `http://localhost:8000/schema`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to your Infrahub instance's schema explorer: Object Management > Schemas
```

2. Find your node type in the list
3. Click on the node to see its attributes and relationships
4. Note the current `order_weight` values (if any are set)

> ### Check Default Weights

Reviewer: Titles won't pass vale check

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="conservative" label="Conservative (Recommended)">

Use weights that leave plenty of room for future insertions:

```yaml
# High priority fields
order_weight: 100   # Most important field
order_weight: 200   # Second most important

# Between defaults
order_weight: 1500  # Between 1st and 2nd default
order_weight: 2500  # Between 2nd and 3rd default

# Low priority
order_weight: 9000  # After all defaults
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="systematic" label="Systematic Numbering">

Use consistent increments for easy maintenance:

```yaml
# Primary information
order_weight: 100
order_weight: 200
order_weight: 300

# Technical details
order_weight: 400
order_weight: 500
order_weight: 600

# Metadata
order_weight: 700
order_weight: 800
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="grouped" label="Range-Based Grouping">

Reserve number ranges for different categories:

```yaml
# Identity (100-199)
order_weight: 100  # name
order_weight: 110  # description

# Network (200-299)
order_weight: 200  # ip_address
order_weight: 210  # subnet

# Hardware (300-399)
order_weight: 300  # cpu_count
order_weight: 310  # memory_gb
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Step 3: Update Your Schema

> 

Reviewer: Worth mentioning relationships I believe and the fact it works as attribute for weight

Reviewer: Well at least for the ones with kind attribute

Reviewer: BTW I don't know if order_weight as any impact on tab ordering for component relationships

Author: ⏺ Yes, order_weight does impact tab ordering for component relationships!

  Looking at the code in
  infrahub/frontend/app/src/entities/nodes/object/utils/get-relationships-visible-in-tab.ts (line
  24):

  return relationships
    .filter(isRelationshipVisibleInTab)
    .sort((a, b) => (a.order_weight ?? 0) - (b.order_weight ?? 0));

  This function:
  1. Filters relationships that should appear as tabs (Component, Generic, Hierarchy, Template - all with
  cardinality "many")
  2. Sorts them by order_weight in ascending order

  So component relationships (and other tab-visible relationships) are displayed as tabs in the order determined by
  their order_weight values. Lower weights appear first, just like attributes and regular relationships.

Author: Added at line 11 above, can you review @BaptisteGi
